Welcome back to the fundamentals of spring boot in this section we'll be taking a closer look at the
inner workings of a typical spring Boot application.
We'll discover how dependency injection works in spring and how the immersion of control principle applied
down will play spring boot on top of this architecture and link with the spring co-features.
By doing so we'll get a full grasp on the spring boot way of things and applications that we're going
to develop.
Let's get to it and start with the spring boot Application Lifecycle.
We'll analyze the sort of actions and events in three parts.
So let's begin with the first part of when you run a standard Java application what basically JVM does
is if you don't have explicitly provided it with the parameter finds the class with the main method
and starts everything from there.
Simple as that.
On the other hand spring mood way of running an application is after a JVM finds the main class for
your application to run spring intercepts the process and looks at the type of being configuration you
use for your application.
And of course there are two options for you to configure your application.
You either provide a bean configuration ex-model or just use a Jawa annotation.
So spring first tries to find any example you have for the beans.
And if it cannot initializers the context as an annotation configure application context if you have
used all the wiring in your applications before it also initialized auto wired annotation being passed
processor so that it can wire all the beans that you need together no it's time to decide if you have
a web application or anything else if you have a web application then it does prepare a web application
context after Todrick configurations and deductions.
Main method.
Yet some won't.
And basically the application is being run of course spring internally has a spring application wrongest
under to see if the application has actually started.
These listeners are basically observer pattern implementations.
We now have a running application contacts to be configured more with the environment variables and
so on.
That brings us to the second part.
It's time to search and load application up properties files so that we can initialize the where is
application parameters such as the app name so report database connection information at Sudra spring
then injects these to the desired variables and context and when it finished preparing all in one moment
it fires another event saying that the environment is prepared.
Spring application run list and are observed these events and moves forward with some more contextual
actions.
One of the interesting things that it does is preparing the banner and printing it out to the console.
After doing some side work like preparing banner sprinklered now bood up the main application context.
This is the spot where all your beans although wirings and injections become actually meaningful and
ready to be used by your implementation.
This is where the dependency injection principle gets applied souping does it so elegantly.
All you have to do is annotate your dependencies just as we discussed earlier.
Whenever spring finishes rire and all the beans up it far.
Another event to say that the context is ready.
That brings us to the last part.
Now application wrongest and or knows that the context is loaded and ready in order to be a failsafe
mechanism before running your own code.
Spring refreshes the context that it created and make some final touches to the wiring and inject since
basically fixes any missing components into context whenever refreshing ends that fires up the finished
event.
And here we are.
Now you have a fully running application ready to be interact with.
As you can see Sprint took over the control of preparing and configuring everything bottom to the top
and we basically inversed to control over to spring.
That's the main philosophy behind inversion of control mechanism.
You get the control over to spring and it literally takes care of everything.
That concludes our spring Boot application lifecycle.
Now let's move on to the next section where we talk about dependency injection in detail.